Kuei, hello, let me introduce myself, Kathleen Jourdain, I am Innu from the community of Uashat mak Mani-Utenam.
So today, what I wish to share with you is a little about my experience in the public service.
I have recently arrived to the public service, since almost 8 weeks ago.
I am a senior manager on the liaison team at the First Nations and Inuit Health Branch for the Quebec Region.
This is part of Indigenous Services Canada.
I wanted to share with you my perspective and my way, my vision of my Indigenous culture.
So, as I mentioned, I am Innu and this culture has been transmitted to me mainly through my mom.
So we lived in the city, in Sept-Îles, but also in the community in Uashat itself.
So, I have some experience, I would say I have a vision of two worlds that I would call, the urban environment and the one in community.
In my life, I would say my personal experience has been rather positive.
Of course, like most of us, there have been some instances of racism or rather ignorance of the culture despite the proximity to Sept-Îles,
particularly between the Innu Nation and the Quebec nation, the sept-îlien and sept-Îlienne who live the region.
Yes, but throughout my life journey, whether at school or in the workplace, it has been greatly positive.
What I would like to share with non-Indigenous people in Canada is not to be afraid of being curious, and do not be afraid
not to use the wrong terms either, and we are very politically correct, if I can put it that way.
But there are people who have approached me and asked which tribe are you from.
It's important to have this openness, not to take it the wrong way, and then to inform people that we call it a Nation.
My nation is the Innu Nation.
And, in Quebec, this represents nine communities, mainly on the North Shore, but also in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean.
It's things like that and not to be afraid to ask questions because I think that through this curiosity,
it brings beautiful exchanges and a better knowledge of our cultures.
And I speak about the Innu culture, because it's mine.
I've been in contact with other Indigenous cultures in the country, mainly in Quebec, but, and it's expressed in different ways.
So, maybe for another Indigenous person, the word tribe does not appear as derogatory as it could be
for another Indigenous person in another region or another province.
So, that's what I want to share with you, to be open, to be curious, to dare to ask questions, to dare to ask.
And then, I would like to tell you that for the moment regarding my new experience, in the public service,
there is a great openness, there are beautiful projects, beautiful programs that are being
put in place for Indigenous and non-Indigenous people,
to improve knowledge of the different Indigenous cultures in Canada,
but also to ensure that there is a greater presence of Indigenous people in the public service.
So, I would invite Indigenous people in this country to dare to come forward, if they are interested in a career in the public service, apply.
Sometimes it's just about talking to someone who is in the public service environment and then to see
if there are opportunities, openings, because in my case, it was really an unexpected opportunity.
I would say it just came to me, without forcing things and it is going really well.
So to summarize, I hope that we can move forward together, work together, know each other better
and build a bridge, make better connections, for a healthier and smoother cohabitation.
But as I said for me personally, I haven't experienced any big trauma, but I know that for other people, it's different.
So there it is, I wish you all a good learning journey and great discoveries with the nations and Indigenous Peoples in Canada.